

                           RasMol 2.6.4
              Molecular Graphics Visualisation tool.

                           Roger Sayle 
                          December 1998


    This posting is to announce the release of RasMol version 2.6.4.
RasMol is a molecular graphics program intended for the visualisation 
of proteins, nucleic acids and small molecules. The program is aimed 
at display, teaching and generation of publication quality images. 
The program has been developed at the University of Edinburgh's 
Biocomputing Research Unit and in the Bioinformatics Group of
Glaxo-Wellcome Research and Development, Stevenage, UK.  This latest 
version is available for the Apple Macintosh, Microsoft Windows, UNIX
and VMS.  A text-only version has also been developed to run on other
architectures including MS-DOS.

    RasMol reads in molecular co-ordinate files in a number of formats and
interactively displays the molecule on the screen in a variety of colour
schemes and representations. Currently supported input file formats include
Brookhaven Protein Databank (PDB), Tripos' Alchemy and Sybyl Mol2 formats,
Molecular Design Limited's (MDL) Mol file format, Minnesota Supercomputer
Center's (MSC) XMol XYZ format and CHARMm format files. If connectivity
information and/or secondary structure information is not contained in the
file this is calculated automatically. The loaded molecule may be shown as
wireframe, cylinder (Dreiding) stick bonds, alpha-carbon trace, spacefilling
(CPK) spheres, macromolecular ribbons (either smooth shaded solid ribbons
or parallel strands), hydrogen bonding and dot surface. Atoms may also be
labelled with arbitrary text strings. Different parts of the molecule may be
displayed and coloured independently of the rest of the molecule or shown in
different representations simultaneously. The space filling spheres can even
be shadowed. The displayed molecule may be rotated, translated, zoomed, 
z-clipped (slabbed) interactively using either the mouse, the scroll bars, 
the command line or an attached dials box. RasMol can read a prepared list 
of commands from a `script' file (or via interprocess communication) to 
allow a given image or viewpoint to be restored quickly. RasMol can also
create a script file containing the commands required to regenerate the 
current image. Finally the rendered image may be written out in a variety 
of formats including both raster and vector PostScript, GIF, PPM, BMP, PICT,
Sun rasterfile or as a MolScript input script or Kinemage.

    RasMol will run on a wide range of architectures and systems including 
SGI, sun4, sun3, sun386i, DEC, HP and E&S workstations, IBM RS/6000, 
Cray, Sequent, DEC Alpha (OSF/1, OpenVMS and Windows NT), IBM PC (under 
Microsoft Windows 3.1, Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows NT, OS/2, Linux,
BSD386, *BSD and MSDOS), Apple Macintosh (68K or PowerMac using MacOS 7.0
or later), PowerMac and VAX VMS (under DEC Windows).  UNIX and VMS versions
require an 1bit, 8bit, 16bit, 24bit or 32bit X Windows frame buffer (X11R4
or later). The X Windows version of RasMol provides optional support for a
hardware dials box and accelerated shared memory rendering (via the XInput
and MIT-SHM extensions) if available.

    The source code is public domain and freely distributable provided that
the original author is suitably acknowledged. The complete source code and
user documentation may be obtained by anonymous FTP from ftp.dcs.ed.ac.uk
[129.215.160.5] in the directory /pub/rasmol. The source code, documentation
and Microsoft Windows executables are stored in several files appropriate
for the receiving operating system. Please read the "README" file in the
distribution directory. UNIX and VAX systems should retreive the
RasMol2.tar.gz. Apple Macintosh users should retrieve rasmac.sit.hqx.
Microsoft Windows users should retrieve raswin32.zip.  All these files 
include on-line help, user manual and reference card. RasMac.sit.hqx and
RasWin32.zip also contain executables for the required platform.
RasMol2.tar.gz includes the complete source code for all platforms.
Please remember to use "binary" mode when transferring these files 
between systems. Check that the file size is the same before and after 
transfer.

